Swift SDK migration (#597)
rudderlabs/rudderstack-docs: docs/stream-sources/rudderstack-sdk-integration-guides/rudderstack-swift-sdk.mdx

```
</span>
A shared instance of <code class="inline-code">RSClient</code> is accessible after the initialization via <code class="inline-code">[RSClient sharedInstance]</code>.
      </TabPanel>
      <TabPanel>
<span>

```swift
let config: RSConfig = RSConfig(writeKey: WRITE_KEY)
                  .dataPlaneURL(DATA_PLANE_URL)
                  .trackLifecycleEvents(true)
                  .recordScreenViews(true)
        
RSClient.sharedInstance().configure(with: config)
```
</span>
A shared instance of <code class="inline-code">RSClient</code> is accesible after the initialization via <code class="inline-code">RSClient.sharedInstance()</code>
      </TabPanel>
    </TabPanels>
</Tabs>

<div class="infoBlock">

RudderStack automatically tracks the following <Link to="/rudderstack-api/api-specification/application-lifecycle-events-spec">application lifecycle events</Link>:
<ul>
<li><code class="inline-code">Application Installed</code></li>
<li><code class="inline-code">Application Updated</code></li>
<li><code class="inline-code">Application Opened</code></li>
<li><code class="inline-code">Application Backgrounded</code></li>
</ul>

> You can disable these events using the <code class="inline-code">trackLifecycleEvents</code> method of <code class="inline-code">RSConfig</code> by passing <code class="inline-code">false</code>. However, it is highly recommended to keep them enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can disable these events using the <code class="inline-code">trackLifecycleEvents</code> method of <code class="inline-code">RSConfig</code> and passing it as <code class="inline-code">false</code>. However, it is highly recommended to keep them enabled.
```

<div class="infoBlock">

RudderStack captures <code class="inline-code">deviceId</code> and uses that as <code class="inline-code">anonymousId</code> for identifying unknown users. This helps in tracking the users across the application installation.
</div>

<div class="infoBlock">

According to the <a href="https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uidevice/1620059-identifierforvendor">Apple documentation</a>, if a device has multiple apps from the same vendor, all the apps will be assigned the same <code class="inline-code">deviceId</code>. If all the applications from the vendor are uninstalled, then a new <code class="inline-code">deviceId</code> will be assigned to the apps on the next install.
</div>

> An sample `identify` call is shown below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A sample `identify` call is shown below:
```

<Tabs>
  <TabList>
    <Tab>Objective-C</Tab>
    <Tab>Swift</Tab>
  </TabList>
    <TabPanels>
      <TabPanel>
<span>

```objectivec
[[RSClient sharedInstance] group:@"sample_group_id" traits:@{
  @"key_1": @"value_1",
  @"key_2": @"value_2"
} 
options:NULL];
```
</span>
      </TabPanel>
      <TabPanel>
<span>

```swift
RSClient.sharedInstance().group("sample_group_id", traits: [
  "key_1": "value_1",
  "key_2": "value_2"
])
```
</span>
      </TabPanel>
    </TabPanels>
</Tabs>

The `group` method accepts the following parameters:

| Name      | Data type      | Presence | Description                |
| :-------- | :------------- | :------- | :------------------------------------ |
| `groupId` | `String`       | Required      | The unique identifier of the group with which you want to associate your user.        |
| `traits`  | `NSDictionary` | Optional       | Any other property of the organization you want to pass along with the call. |
| `option` | `RSOption` | Optional       | Extra event-level options to be passed along with the `group` call.              |

<div class="warningBlock">

The iOS SDK does not persist the group traits across the sessions.
</div>

## Alias

> The <Link to="/rudderstack-api/api-specification/rudderstack-spec/alias"><code class="inline-code">alias</code></Link> call associates the user with a new identification. A sample `alias` call for the API is below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The <Link to="/rudderstack-api/api-specification/rudderstack-spec/alias"><code class="inline-code">alias</code></Link> call associates the user with a new identification. A sample `alias` call is shown below:
```

<Tabs>
  <TabList>
    <Tab>Objective-C</Tab>
    <Tab>Swift</Tab>
  </TabList>
    <TabPanels>
      <TabPanel>
<span>

```objectivec
[[RSClient sharedInstance] alias:@"new_user_id" options:NULL];
```
</span>
      </TabPanel>
      <TabPanel>
<span>

```swift
RSClient.sharedInstance().alias("new_user_id")
```
</span>
      </TabPanel>
    </TabPanels>
</Tabs>

> Alternatively, you can use the following method signature

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can use the following method signature:
```

| Name      | Data type      | Presence | Description                                     |
| :-------- | :------------- | :------- | :---------------------------------------------- |
| `newId`   | `String`       | Required      | The new `userId` you want to assign to the user. |
| `option` | `RSOption` | Optional       | Event-level options.                              |

<div class="infoBlock">

RudderStack replaces the old <code class="inline-code">userId</code> with the <code class="inline-code">newUserId</code> and persists that identification across the sessions.
</div>

## Reset

> You can use the `reset` method to clear the persisted user traits for the `identify` call. This is required for the user logout operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the `reset` method to clear the persisted user traits from the `identify` call. This is required for the user logout operation.
```

<Tabs>
  <TabList>
    <Tab>Objective-C</Tab>
    <Tab>Swift</Tab>
  </TabList>
    <TabPanels>
      <TabPanel>
<span>

```objectivec
[[RSClient sharedInstance] reset];
```
</span>
      </TabPanel>
      <TabPanel>
<span>

```swift
RSClient.sharedInstance().reset()
```
</span>
      </TabPanel>
    </TabPanels>
</Tabs>

## Enabling/disabling user tracking via the `setOptOutStatus` API (GDPR support)

RudderStack gives the users (for example, an EU user) the ability to opt out of tracking any user activity until they give their consent. You can do this by leveraging RudderStack's `setOptOutStatus` API.

The `setOptOutStatus` API takes `YES`/`NO` (Objective-C) or `true`/`false` (Swift) as a Boolean value to enable or disable the user tracking activities. This flag persists across device reboots.

<div class="infoBlock">

> You only need to call the <code class="inline-code">setoptOutStatus</code> API with the relevant parameter only once, as the information persists within the device even if you reboot it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to call the <code class="inline-code">setoptOutStatus</code> API with the relevant parameter only once, as the information persists within the device even if you reboot it.
```

</div>

> The following snippet highlights the use of the `optOut` API to disable user tracking:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following snippet highlights the use of the `setoptOutStatus` API to disable user tracking:
```

<Tabs>
  <TabList>
    <Tab>Objective-C</Tab>
    <Tab>Swift</Tab>
  </TabList>
    <TabPanels>
      <TabPanel>
<span>

```objectivec
[[RSClient sharedInstance] setOptOutStatus:YES];
```
</span>
      </TabPanel>
      <TabPanel>
<span>

```swift
RSClient.sharedInstance().setOptOutStatus(true)
```
</span>
      </TabPanel>
    </TabPanels>
</Tabs>

> Once the user grants their consent, you can enable user tracking once again by using the `setOptOutStatus` API with `NO` or `false` as a parameter sent to it, as shown:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the user grants their consent, you can enable user tracking once again by using the `setOptOutStatus` API with `NO` or `false` as its parameter, as shown:
```

<Tabs>
  <TabList>
    <Tab>Swift</Tab>
    <Tab>Objective-C</Tab>
  </TabList>
    <TabPanels>
      <TabPanel>
<span>

```swift
RSClient.sharedInstance().addDestination(CustomDestination())
```
</span>
      </TabPanel>
      <TabPanel>
<span>

```objectivec
#import "<PROJECT_MODULE_NAME>-Swift.h"

[client addDestination:[[CustomDestination alloc] init]];
```
</span>
      </TabPanel>
    </TabPanels>
</Tabs>

## FAQs

### I'm facing issues building with Carthage on XCode 12. What should I do?

If you're facing an issue with Carthage and XCode 12, you can follow [this workaround](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage/blob/master/Documentation/Xcode12Workaround.md) suggested by the Carthage team.

### Does the iOS SDK support the tvOS, macOS, and watchOS platforms?

Yes, the iOS SDK supports tvOS and watchOS platforms. Refer to the table below for the version details:

| Platform | Minimum SDK version supported |
| :--------| :----------------|
| [tvOS](https://developer.apple.com/tvos/) | 1.1.0 |
| [watchOS](https://developer.apple.com/watchos/) | 1.3.0 |
| [macOS](https://developer.apple.com/macos/) | 2.0.0 |

> ### How do I migrate from an older SDK version to the current version?

Author: @pallabmaiti can you please help me with [this comment](https://github.com/rudderlabs/rudderstack-docs/pull/506/files#r873506200)? How do I fetch the current version?

To migrate from older SDK versions, update the usage of the following classes:

| Previous Name | Updated Name |
| :---------------| :---------------|
| `RudderClient` | `RSClient`       |
| `RudderConfig`| `RSConfig`     |

> | `RudderConfigBuilder` | `RSConfigBuilder` |

Author: @pallabmaiti as per your comment [here](https://github.com/rudderlabs/rudderstack-docs/pull/506/files#r874472740), `RSConfigBuilder` class is not available now. Should I go ahead and remove the reference from this table?

Reviewer 2: Yes please.

| `RudderLogLevelDebug` | `RSLogLevelDebug` |

> ### How do I ensure the events tracked just before closing/backgrounding the app are sent immediately and not on the next app launch?

Author: @pallabmaiti as per your comment [here](https://github.com/rudderlabs/rudderstack-docs/pull/506/files#r873504858), we don't support this as of now but we might re-support it later.

Can we remove it from this doc **for now**, and then re-add it once we add support for this feature?

Reviewer 2: Yes, we can do that.

To ensure that the events tracked just before closing/backgrounding the app are sent to RudderStack immediately, you can set `withEnableBackgroundMode` to `YES` while creating the `RSConfigBuilder` object as shown below:

<div class="infoBlock">

Currently, this feature is available only for <code class="inline-code">iOS</code> & <code class="inline-code">tvOS</code> platforms.
</div>

```objectivec

> RSConfigBuilder *builder = [[RSConfigBuilder alloc] init];

Author: @pallabmaiti  Since `RSConfigBuilder` is not supported/available, does this code block need to be changed (if we are retaining this FAQ and not removing it completely)?

Reviewer 2: I think this entire portion will be deleted. So, yes.
